# coursereqs

Team Members (CS logins): Seong-Heon Jung (sjung35), Michael Tu (mstu), Rio Young (ryoung22)

## Modeling courses and course requirements at Brown

In this project, we are attempting to model courses at Brown and their prerequisites, the different graduation requirements and the relationship between the two. We do this by constraining the problem in a number of different ways. For example, we implemented a variety of different predicates to ensure wellformedness such as `wellformed_introseqs`, which ensures that intro level courses do not have any prerequisite courses, and `wellformed_equivalent_courses`, which ensures that there are no circular dependencies when it comes to prerequisite courses.

We represent course prereqs with sets of equivalent courses which themselves contain sets of courses. The reasoning for this would best be explained with an example of a real course and its requirements. The course CSCI 1515: Applied Cryptography lists these as its prerequisites: (CSCI 0200 or 0220) and (CSCI 0300, 0330, 1310, 1950S or 1330). There are different "buckets" from which a student can have taken a class from but they must have taken at least one course from each "bucket". We represent this by having an AND relation between a course's equivalent courses (or the buckets) and an OR relationship within the equivalent course's courses (or the classes within each bucket).

As we move from semester to semester, we make sure that the courses we have taken remain on our transcript and that any new classes added to the transcript are ones that we have met the requirements for by having taking the prerequisite courses and haven't taken in any previous semesters.

## Stakeholders:

This model is primarily intended for students, though some other stakeholders could include Brown administration and faculty.

- **Current + prospective CS concentrators**: Students can use this model to generate a valid course plan that fulfills the CS concentration requirements. Additionally, students can write additional predicates to refine the search space for instances that fit their personal constraints (e.g. want to take CSCI 1710 before senior year).
- **Brown administration and CS faculty**: Brown administration and faculty may be invested in this model to determine the pros and cons of the new CS requirements, compared to the old requirements. They may also be concerned about how limiting the requirements are on students and can gain a rough understanding of this by using our model. Brown administration could use the model when changing graduation requirements to monitor if the change is still completable by students and how much leeway a new change might afford students in terms of choice of courses. Brown faculty could use the model if they want to change one of their courses' prerequisites (whether removing or adding) to see if there are any circular requirements.
- **CS departments at other universities**: Similarly, CS departments at other universities may want to see the possibilities of Brown's CS requirements compared to their own. This model is flexible to handle different sets of graduation requirements, and the sigs are generalized to handle most course management systems.

## Process

Due to the "bucket" nature of prerequisite courses, we were initially unsure of the best way to implement this. We first thought that the number of cases were there would be multiple kinds of prereqs would be few and far between, so we implemented prerequisistes to simply be a set of courses. However, after creating optimizer instances, we found that many courses had multiple prereq options, so we pivoted to our EquivalentCourse design.

## Visualization

We created a custom visualization that displays the instance in the form of an 8-semester course plan. At the top of the course plan, you can see the semester IDs corresponding to the sequence of semesters generated by Forge. In each column, you will find the courses that a student should take in that semester under the course plan specified by this instance. This visualization assumes that the number of CS courses a student can take in a given semester is between 0 and 5, inclusive. If the number of courses exceeds 5, an error messsage will appear.

If you're using the default visualization, we would recommend you look at the table view, instead of the monstrosity of the graph view 😵‍💫. The `taking` field will show you what courses are planned for each semester. You can also visually verify that all courses planned for a given semester was not previously taken and that their prereqs have all been fulfilled. By the last semester, the `courses_taken` set should match the instance's graduation requirements.
